---
author: Charles
categories:
- Personal
comments: true
date: 2016-11-29T05:29:09Z
link: http://www.bassitone.com/2016/11/28/dirait-on/
slug: dirait-on
title: Dirait-on
url: /2016/11/29/dirait-on/
wordpress_id: 4385
---

One of those days.

It was one of those days.

I should have realized I was in for it when my boss asked me to do something right at the beginning of the titular track, a song by Morton Lauridsen so beautiful that it almost never fails to bring me that nice, centering comfort, that general "at ease" feeling that can so often be important.

It is one of the few songs I have on a physical disk these days for that reason.

Mondays suck, we all know that.  Today was one of the busiest I've had in ages - just nonstop stuff to do, faster than I could do it.

And this was on top of the anxiety and general ugly feelings last night and this morning surrounding this project.  What do y'all do when you feel like you're not contributing enough to a group project... even though you are, as much as you think you can be, anyway?

Seriously, I don't know how I can do more than I already am, but it still feels like I'm not doing enough, y'know?

But, alas, life goes on, or so they say.  And so must I.  Tomorrow's a new day, and this report won't write itself.  Just got to grind it out, for better or worse.  Two days and I'm done with this project, yay.

After all, I've got a novel and programming projects I want to do!  On that note, I'm also doing a character study of the likes of Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson for the sake of writing (and a bit of acting).  The things I do as a writer...



Do your worst, internet.



Now excuse me as I go find some [mind bleach in the form of cute ponies](http://www.ponymindbleach.com/)...
